Anonymous Handbook: from deepweb.wikia.com compiled by Anonymii, Version 0.1.3: Foreword: The greatest threats entering the Deep Web to your safety are A) social engineering and your behaviour and B) revealing your IP address. I. for A) see Social Threats: Basic rule: Blend in with the crowd, disperse into the stream. Keep a low profile. Don't try to be special. Remember, when in Rome, do as Romans do. Don't try to be a smart ass. FEDs are many, Anonymous is Legion, but you are only one. There are no old heros, there are only young heros and dead heros. Do not give any personal information on the IRC chat as it is public, you mom could read what you write there and so could the Police. And don't mention your involvement with Anonymous in your real life: 1. do not include personal information in your screen name, 2. don't discuss personal information, your address or where you're from, 3. don't mention your gender, tattoos, scars, piercings, bodymodifications, over-/underweight, physical or psychological (in)abillities, 4. don't mention your profession or hobbies, 5. don't mention whether you're in a relationship, 6. don't mention your involvement with other activist groups, musical taste/preferred literature/films is a good way, to know someone, 7. don't use special characters, that are existent only in your language as they would reveal where you are from, 8. Everything is completely seperate between your real life and online life(s), don't blend anything from your real life with anon, 10. don't talk about Anon in real life except posting posters anonymously, 11. don't mention your school, university etc. 12. don't mention what time it is where you live, mentioning the time can reveal where you live, 13. Never connect at same time. Try to alternate. 14. Do not post on the public net while you are in the IRC, and definitely do not mention that you are posting something on Twitter. This is easy to correlate. 15. Don't discuss whether you personally are DDOSing or writing How-Tos or Nmap'ing the target, making graphics etc. or not, just discuss general strategy, 16. Do not post pictures hosted on Facebook. The filename contains your profile ID. Stagger your login & log out times on FaceBook, Twitter & IRC. They can be compared for user info. II. for B) see Technical: Basic Rule: Use as many security layers as possible. The question is not, wether you are paranoid, but wether you are paranoid enough. Most Anonymii use VPN to hide their traces, they use SSL encrypted connections and they use #vhost. Useful (mandatory) plugins/extensions: BetterPrivacy (Removes persistent cookies from flash stuff >> *.sol), NoScript (blocks Javascript), AdBlock Plus (blocks Ads) (Subscribe to Easylist and Fanboy's List), Element Hider for Adblock Plus, Ghostery (tracking pixels), TACO (More adblocking), Redirect Controller, Refcontrol, WorldIP (know your country, know your rights), Flagfox, GoogleSharing (GoogleProxy anonymizes the search), User Agent Switcher: Sends bogus browser identity to servers., Scroogle SSL search (Google anonymously), ...
