Bitcoin Legal Issues: Bitcoin's association with criminal activities has historically hindered the currency from attaining widespread, mainstream use and has attracted the attention of financial regulators, legislative bodies, and law enforcement. The Washington Post has labelled it "the currency of choice for seedy online activities,"and CNN has called Bitcoin a "shady online currency." Its links to criminal activities have prompted scrutiny from the FBI, US Senate, and the State of New York. The FBI stated in a 2012 report that "Bitcoins will likely continue to attract cybercriminals who view it as a means to move or steal funds". In March 2013 the US Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) established regulatory guidelines for "decentralized virtual currencies" such as Bitcoin, classifying American "Bitcoin miners" who sell their generated bitcoins as Money Service Businesses (or MSBs), that may be subject to registration and other legal obligations. The New York State Department of Financial Services, citing its authority to regulate money transmissions and its concern with criminal activity (Silk Road in particular), announced an inquiry in late 2013 into possible regulations and guidelines for Bitcoin (a "BitLicense") and the holding of public hearings in New York City. Black markets: Several news outlets assert that the popularity of Bitcoin hinges on the ability to use them to purchase illegal substances. In 2013 The Guardian reported that the currency was primarily used to purchase illegal drugs and for online gambling. Legitimate transactions are thought to be far less than the number involved in the purchase of drugs, and roughly one half of all transactions made using Bitcoin are bets placed at a single online gaming website. In 2012, an academic from the Carnegie Mellon CyLab and the Information Networking Institute estimated that 4.5 to 9% of all bitcoins spent were for purchases of drugs at a single online market, Silk Road. Unauthorized mining: In June 2011, Symantec warned about the possibility of botnets engaging in covert mining of Bitcoins, consuming computing cycles, using extra electricity and possibly increasing the temperature of the computer. Some malware also used the parallel processing capabilities of the GPUs built into many modern-day video cards. In mid-August 2011, Bitcoin miner botnets were detected again, and less than three months later Bitcoin-mining trojans infecting Mac OS X were also discovered. In April 2013 electronic sports organisation E-Sports Entertainment were accused of hijacking 14,000 computers to mine Bitcoins; the case was settled in November with the organisation fined $1 million USD if it breaks the law within the following 10 years, or $325,000 if it does not.
