Bitcoins
Bitcoin is an open source peer-to-peer electronic money and payment network introduced in 2009 by pseudonymous developer "Satoshi Nakamoto". Bitcoin has been called a cryptocurrency because it uses cryptography to secure transactions. Digitally signed payment messages are broadcast to and verified by a decentralized network of computers all over the world.[10] Specialized computers use a proof-of-work system to prevent people from copying and spending the same Bitcoin multiple times, a problem for digital currencies known as double-spending. The operators of these computers, known as "miners", are rewarded with transaction fees and newly minted Bitcoins.

Bitcoins are stored by associating them with addresses called "wallets". Wallets can be stored on web services, on local hardware like PCs and mobile devices, or on paper print-outs. Thefts of Bitcoins from web services and online wallets have been covered in the media, prompting assertions that the safest way to store Bitcoins is in a paper wallet generated on an uncompromised computer by yourself.

In 2012, The Economist reasoned that Bitcoin has been popular because of "its role in dodgy online markets", and in 2013 the FBI shut down one such service, Silk Road, which specialized in illegal drugs (whereupon the FBI took control of approximately 1.5% of all bitcoins in circulation). However, Bitcoins are increasingly used as payment for legitimate products and services, and merchants have an incentive to accept the currency because transaction fees are lower than the 2 to 3% typically imposed by credit card processors. Notable vendors include OkCupid, Reddit, WordPress, and Chinese Internet giant Baidu.

Speculators have been attracted to Bitcoin, fueling volatility and price swings. As of November 2013, the use of Bitcoin in the retail and commercial marketplace is relatively small compared with a relatively large use by speculators

Transactions:
Integral to Bitcoin is a public transaction ledger and log known as the blockchain, which shows who owns how many Bitcoins currently and records the participants in all prior transactions as well. By keeping a record of all transactions, the blockchain prevents double-spending (copying one Bitcoin and spending it in multiple different places) because the record shows that once a Bitcoin has been spent, the previous owner no longer controls it. The blockchain is maintained not by a central body but by a distributed network of computers that run a program to solve cryptographic puzzles relating to information in the blockchain. Users who devote computing power to maintaining the blockchain this way are called "miners" because they are awarded in bitcoin when they are first to solve such puzzles—mining is how new Bitcoins are generated. The mathematical calculations performed by miners' computers serve to verify that each transaction is valid and add the information to the blockchain. As more Bitcoins come into circulation, the puzzles involved in mining them become increasingly difficult, and the rewards are halved at regular intervals, until 21 million bitcoins have been created and production stops.As Bitcoin achieves wider recognition and more people compete to mine the coins, competition for the limited number of Bitcoins awarded for solving the cryptographic puzzles becomes more steep and more powerful computers are needed in order to compete—a fact which has spawned a technology boom in sales of Bitcoin mining technology.

Anonymity:
Bitcoin uses cryptography for digital signatures but not for encryption. Bitcoin is anonymous in that it's possible though difficult to associate Bitcoin transactions with real-life identities. In addition, Bitcoin intermediaries such as exchanges are required by law in many jurisdictions to collect personal customer data.

Bullbe Theory:
Many have mentioned speculative bubbles in connection with Bitcoin.Professor John Quiggin of the University of Queensland has noted that since Bitcoin by design has no intrinsic value, it is "perhaps the finest example of a pure bubble" currently known, but cautions that we have no way to predict when the value of Bitcoins will return to zero.

Nick Colas, a market strategist for ConvergEx Group, has remarked on the effect of increasing use of Bitcoin and its restricted supply, noting, "When incremental adoption meets relatively fixed supply, it should be no surprise that prices go up. And that’s exactly what is happening to BTC prices."

LEGAL ISSUES:
Bitcoin's association with criminal activities has historically hindered the currency from attaining widespread, mainstream use and has attracted the attention of financial regulators, legislative bodies, and law enforcement.[61] The Washington Post has labelled it "the currency of choice for seedy online activities,"[62] and CNN has called Bitcoin a "shady online currency."[63] Its links to criminal activities have prompted scrutiny from the FBI, US Senate, and the State of New York. The FBI stated in a 2012 report that "Bitcoins will likely continue to attract cybercriminals who view it as a means to move or steal funds".[64]

In March 2013 the US Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) established regulatory guidelines for "decentralized virtual currencies" such as Bitcoin, classifying American "Bitcoin miners" who sell their generated bitcoins as Money Service Businesses (or MSBs), that may be subject to registration and other legal obligations.[65][66][67] In August 2013 the German Finance Ministry characterized Bitcoin as a unit of account,[68][69] usable in multilateral clearing circles and subject to capital gains tax if held less than one year.[69] The New York State Department of Financial Services, citing its authority to regulate money transmissions and its concern with criminal activity (Silk Road in particular), announced an inquiry in late 2013 into possible regulations and guidelines for Bitcoin (a "BitLicense") and the holding of public hearings in New York City.[70] The US Internal Revenue Service has also stated that it is actively working on its own rules for Bitcoin.[41]

Some have suggested that due to its close association with illegal purchases, governments could outlaw Bitcoin. This assertion has been made by Steven Strauss, a Harvard public policy professor, and was also mentioned in 2013 SEC filing made by a Bitcoin investment vehicle.[71] Bitcoins are not currently illegal, however. FBI Special Agent Christopher Tarbell has stated that "Bitcoins are not illegal in and of themselves and have known legitimate uses".[72]

Black markets
Several news outlets assert that the popularity of Bitcoin hinges on the ability to use them to purchase illegal substances. In 2013 The Guardian reported that the currency was primarily used to purchase illegal drugs and for online gambling, and The Huffington Post stated that "online gambling accounts for a huge portion of Bitcoin activity." Legitimate transactions are thought to be far less than the number involved in the purchase of drugs, and roughly one half of all transactions made using Bitcoin are bets placed at a single online gaming website. In 2012, an academic from the Carnegie Mellon CyLab and the Information Networking Institute estimated that 4.5 to 9% of all bitcoins spent were for purchases of drugs at a single online market, Silk Road.As the majority of the Bitcoin transactions were at this time speculative in nature, this academic asserts that drugs constituted a much larger percentage of the products and services bought using the currency, however. The Huffington Post stated in 2013 that online gun dealers use Bitcoin to sell arms without background checks.

Money laundering
While some feel Bitcoin may be used for money laundering, a 2012 report by the FBI acknowledged such fears but stated that there were no known instances of this occurring.[64] Some say one obstacle to Bitcoins becoming widely used to launder money may be the fact that the transaction history is public. During the US Senate hearing in 2013, Jennifer Shasky Calvery, director of the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network said that despite the possibility for using Bitcoin that "Cash is probably still the best medium for money laundering."

Unauthorized mining
In June 2011, Symantec warned about the possibility of botnets engaging in covert mining of Bitcoins, consuming computing cycles, using extra electricity and possibly increasing the temperature of the computer. Some malware also used the parallel processing capabilities of the GPUs built into many modern-day video cards. In mid-August 2011, Bitcoin miner botnets were detected again, and less than three months later Bitcoin-mining trojans infecting Mac OS X were also discovered. In April 2013 electronic sports organisation E-Sports Entertainment were accused of hijacking 14,000 computers to mine Bitcoins; the case was settled in November with the organisation fined $1 million USD if it breaks the law within the following 10 years, or $325,000 if it does not.


* http://swampland.time.com/2013/10/31/the-deep-web-has-washington-worried/

Bitcoin can be a force for good. “We’ve grown used to the idea that virtual transactions should be tracked because they can be; whereas Bitcoin brings anonymity back into online commerce,” says Sasha Meinrath, director of the New America Foundation’s Open Technology Institute. “It’s amazing how scary this notion is to law enforcement. But I see it as akin to trade in gold, cash transactions, and barter: not something to be feared, but simply another useful tool for commerce.”

And yet, virtual currencies have a complex past. In recent years, Liberty Reserve and e-Gold both ran afoul of the law, mostly for money laundering. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement seized funds from the world’s largest Bitcoin exchange, Mt. Gox, in May charging that the company was operating an unlicensed money transmitting service. Mt. Gox has since moved to put names to Bitcoin transfers and register with federal and state governments. There is about $2 billion Bitcoin in existence today. Authorities say Silk Road transactions amounted to $1.2 billion in Bitcoin.

Indeed, regulators have already taken an active interest in Bitcoin. The Senate Finance Committee is looking at language to regulate virtual currencies its tax code overhaul. They’re also considering giving the IRS more money to track virtual tax havens, Senate sources tell TIME. A  Government Accountability Office report in June warned that virtual currencies like Bitcoin could be abused as tax havens. New York Financial Services Superintendent Benjamin Lawsky sent subpoenas to 22 Bitcoin businesses this summer saying it was considering new regulatory guidance on virtual currencies. “If virtual currencies remain a virtual Wild west for narcotraffickers and other criminals,” he said announcing the subpoenas, “that would not only threaten our country’s national security, but also the very existence of the virtual currency industry as a legitimate business enterprise.” A Commodities Futures Trading Commissioner said his agency is looking into regulating Bitcoins as a commodity. And Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network put out guidance in March saying Bitcoin brokers would have to follow wire service regulations—a potentially onerous requirement as each wire service must register state by state.

China Bans Financial Companies From Bitcoin Transactions -  Dec 5, 2013
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-12-05/china-s-pboc-bans-financial-companies-from-bitcoin-transactions.html

China’s central bank barred financial institutions from handling Bitcoin transactions, moving to regulate the virtual currency after an 89-fold jump in its value sparked a surge of investor interest in the country.
Bitcoin plunged more than 20 percent to below $1,000 on the BitStamp Internet exchange after the People’s Bank of China said it isn’t a currency with “real meaning” and doesn’t have the same legal status. The public is free to participate in Internet transactions provided they take on the risk themselves, it said.
The ban reflects concern about the risk the digital currency may pose to China’s capital controls and financial stability after a surge in trading this year made the country the world’s biggest trader of Bitcoin, according to exchange operator BTC China. Bitcoin’s price jumped more than ninefold in the past two months alone, prompting former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan to call it a “bubble.”
“The concern is that it interferes with normal monetary policy operation,” said Hao Hong, head of China research at Bocom International Holdings Co. in Hong Kong. “It represents an unofficial leakage to the current monetary system and trades globally. It is difficult to regulate and could be used for money laundering. I think the central bank is right to make this move.”
Bitcoin prices plunged to $875 at 6:02 p.m. Shanghai time on BitStamp, an Internet-based exchange where the currency is traded for dollars, euros and other currencies. They closed at a record high of $1,132.01 yesterday. On the Mt.Gox exchange, the currency traded at $901, down from today’s high of $1,240. Prices dropped to as low as 4,521.1 yuan on BTC China, after rising as high as 7,050 yuan.
Bitcoin Rules
The People’s Bank of China said financial institutions and payment companies can’t give pricing in Bitcoin, buy and sell the virtual currency or insure Bitcoin-linked products, according to a statement on the central bank’s website.
PBOC, China Banking Regulatory Commission and other regulators have held discussions about drafting rules for trading platforms that facilitate the buying and selling of the virtual money, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said. They were not authorized to speak because the information is not public.
“We’re happy to see the government start regulating the Bitcoin exchanges,” Chief Executive Officer Bobby Lee of BTC China, the largest Bitcoin exchange in the country, said in a phone interview before the PBOC announcement. Regulations would be for “the good of the consumer,” he said. BTC is seeking recognition of the currency so it can be used to buy goods and services instead of being used for speculation, he said.
‘Unsustainably High’
New rules for Bitcoin may not clarify Bitcoin’s legal status as regulators are divided over the issue, the people said. People are free to trade Bitcoin even as China refrains from recognizing it as a currency in the short term, PBOC’s Deputy Governor Yi Gang was cited by the 21st Century Business Herald as saying last month.
Bitcoin prices are unsustainably high and the virtual money isn’t currency, Greenspan said in a Bloomberg Television interview from Washington yesterday.
“It’s a bubble,” said Greenspan. “It has to have intrinsic value. You have to really stretch your imagination to infer what the intrinsic value of Bitcoin is. I haven’t been able to do it. Maybe somebody else can.”
A Justice Department official said Nov. 18 Bitcoins can be “legal means of exchange” at a U.S. Senate committee hearing, boosting prospects for wider acceptance of the virtual currency. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told the Senate committee the U.S. central bank has no plans to regulate the currency.
Fraudulent Sites
A local branch of China Telecom Corp. is accepting Bitcoins as deposits for a new Samsung Electronics Co. handset. Phone buyers can pay 0.1 Bitcoin to book a Samsung W2014 mobile phone for pickup starting Dec. 20, according to a statement posted on the internal website of China Telecom’s Jiangsu branch and confirmed by a customer service representative.
The growth of Bitcoin in China has come amid speculation that regulators may halt trading after police arrested three people on suspicion of stealing money from investors through a fake online exchange.
GBL, a Bitcoin trading platform that began operating in May and had 4,493 registered users at the end of September, abruptly closed on Oct. 26, the official Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 3., citing police in eastern Zhejiang privince’s Dongyang city.
One investor who reported the case to the police claimed a loss of 90,000 yuan ($14,774), Xinhua reported, saying the total amount of money stolen was unclear. The Hong Kong Standard reported on Nov. 11 that investors may have lost as much as 25 million yuan after the site closed.
Regulators Concern
There are about 12 million Bitcoins in circulation, according to Bitcoincharts, a website that tracks activity across various exchanges. Bitcoin was introduced in 2008 by a programmer or group of programmers going under the name of Satoshi Nakamoto.
“The scale of the Bitcoin market isn’t significant enough to disrupt China’s financial system, but its growth has been very strong,” said Peter Pak, head of trading of BOCI Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong by phone. “Regulators might be worried that this could get out of control in one to two years if they don’t do something.”


Keywords:
@peer-to-peer
@open source
@electronic money
@new currencies
@crypto currency
@broadcast
@Silk Road
@anonymity
@black market
@deep web
@malware
