Botnet

A botnet is a collection of Internet-connected programs communicating with other similar programs in order to perform tasks. This can be as mundane as keeping control of an Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channel, or it could be used to send spam email or participate in distributed denial-of-service attacks. The word botnet is a portmanteau of robot and network.

Legal botnets
The term botnet is widely used when several IRC bots have been linked and may possibly set channel modes on other bots and users while keeping IRC channels free from unwanted users. This is where the term is originally from, since the first illegal botnets were similar to legal botnets. A common bot used to set up botnets on IRC is eggdrop.

Illegal botnets
Botnets sometimes compromise computers whose security defenses have been breached and control conceded to a third party. Each such compromised device, known as a "bot", is created when a computer is penetrated by software from a malware (malicious software) distribution. The controller of a botnet is able to direct the activities of these compromised computers through communication channels formed by standards-based network protocols such as IRC and Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)

Formation and exploitation
- A botnet operator sends out viruses or worms, infecting ordinary users' computers, whose payload is a malicious application—the bot.
- The bot on the infected PC logs into a particular C&C server.
- A spammer purchases the services of the botnet from the operator.
- The spammer provides the spam messages to the operator, who instructs the compromised machines via the control panel on the web server, causing them to send out spam messages.

Botnets are exploited for various purposes, including denial-of-service attacks, creation or misuse of SMTP mail relays for spam (see Spambot), click fraud, mining bitcoins, spamdexing, and the theft of application serial numbers, login IDs, and financial information such as credit card numbers.
The botnet controller community features a constant and continuous struggle over who has the most bots, the highest overall bandwidth, and the most "high-quality" infected machines, like university, corporate, and even government machines.

Types of attacks
In distributed denial-of-service attacks, multiple systems submit as many requests as possible to a single Internet computer or service, overloading it and preventing it from servicing legitimate requests. An example is an attack on a victim's phone number. The victim is bombarded with phone calls by the bots, attempting to connect to the Internet.
Adware advertises a commercial offering actively and without the user's permission or awareness, for example by replacing banner ads on web pages with those of another advertiser.
Spyware is software which sends information to its creators about a user's activities – typically passwords, credit card numbers and other information that can be sold on the black market. Compromised machines that are located within a corporate network can be worth more to the bot herder, as they can often gain access to confidential corporate information. Several targeted attacks on large corporations aimed to steal sensitive information, such as the Aurora botnet.[8]
E-mail spam are e-mail messages disguised as messages from people, but are either advertising, annoying, or malicious.
Click fraud occurs when the user's computer visits websites without the user's awareness to create false web traffic for personal or commercial gain.
Fast flux is a DNS technique used by botnets to hide phishing and malware delivery sites behind an ever-changing network of compromised hosts acting as proxies.
Brute-forcing remote machines services such as FTP, SMTP and SSH.
Worms. The botnet focuses on recruiting other hosts.
Scareware is software that is marketed by creating fear in users. Once installed, it can install malware and recruit the host into a botnet. For example users can be induced to buy a rogue anti-virus to regain access to their computer.[9]
Exploiting systems by observing users playing online games such as poker and see the players' cards.

Keywords:
@Internet programms
@IRC (internet relay Chat)
@spam
@denial-of-service attack
@illegal
@computer security
@bot
@malware
@control
