Chaos Communication Congress

The Chaos Communication Congress is an annual meeting of the international hacker scene, organized by the Chaos Computer Club. The congress features a variety of lectures and workshops on technical and political issues.
The event takes place regularly at the end of the year since 1984, with the current date and duration established in 2005. The congress started out in 1984 in Hamburg, moved to Berlin in 1998, and back to Hamburg in 2012. Having exceeded the capacity of the Berlin venue with more than 4000 attendees, the 2012 meeting in the considerably larger venue in Hamburg set a new record attendance of slightly over 6,000 participants.
A large range of speakers are part of the scene. Organizational work is done by volunteers called Chaos Angels. The non-members entry fee for four days has been 80 Euros since 2006.
An important part of the congress are the assemblies, semi-open spaces with clusters of tables and internet connections for groups and individuals to collaborate and socialize in projects, workshops, and hands-on talks. These assembly spaces, introduced at the 2012 meeting, combine the hack center project space and distributed group spaces of former years. From 1997 to 2004 the congress also hosted the annual German Lockpicking Championships.

Topics:
Hacking the universe
Here Be Electric Dragons
Liquid Democracy
Privacy & Stylometry
Building a Debugger
Why Net Neutrality Matters?
our darknet and its bright spots
A Hacker’s Utopia
Tor and censorship: lessons learned
WikiLeaks Release
Weaponizing Cultural Viruses
Cybernetic Cannibalism
How you can build an eavesdropper for a quantum cryptosystem
Peanut Butter and Plastic: Industrial Revolution
Homewreckery
Advanced microcontroller programming
Security Nightmares
Wikipedia
Exposing Crypto Bugs through reverse engineering
Legic Prime: Obscurity in Depth

The Chaos Communication Camp is an international meeting of hackers that takes place every four years, organized by the Chaos Computer Club (CCC). The camp is an event for providing information about technical and societal issues, such as privacy, freedom of information and data security. Hosted speeches are held in big tents and conducted in English as well as German. Each participant may pitch a tent and connect to a fast internet connection and power.


http://events.ccc.de/congress/2009/conference_recordings.html
http://mirror.fem-net.de/CCC/26C3/mp4/26c3-3540-en-a_hackers_utopia.mp4

Keywords:
@hacking
@hacktivism
@Chaos Computer Club
@Wikileaks
@wikipedia

