Cryptovirology

Cryptovirology is a field that studies how to use cryptography to design powerful malicious software. The field was born with the observation that public-key cryptography can be used to break the symmetry between what an antivirus analyst sees regarding a virus and what the virus writer sees. The former only sees a public key whereas the latter sees a public key and corresponding private key. The first attack that was identified in the field is called "cryptoviral extortion". In this attack a virus, worm, or trojan hybrid encrypts the victim's files and the user must pay the malware author to receive the needed session key (which is encrypted under the author's public key that is contained in the malware) if the user does not have backups and needs the files back.
The field also encompasses covert attacks in which the attacker secretly steals private information such as private keys. An example of the latter type of attack are asymmetric backdoors. An asymmetric backdoor is a backdoor (e.g., in a cryptosystem) that can be used only by the attacker, even after it is found. This contrasts with the traditional backdoor that is symmetric, i.e., anyone that finds it can use it. Kleptography, a subfield of cryptovirology, is concerned with the study of asymmetric back doors in key generation algorithms, digital signature algorithms, key exchanges, and so on. There is a misconception that cryptovirology is mostly about extortion attacks. In fact, the vast majority of cryptovirology attacks are covert in nature.

Cryptovirology was born in academia. However, practitioners have recently expanded the scope of the field to include the analysis of cryptographic algorithms used by malware writers, attacks on these algorithms using automated methods (such as X-raying) and analysis of viruses' and packers' encryptors. Also included is the study of cryptography-based techniques (such as "delayed code") developed by malware writers to hamper malware analysis.


Example: Troj/Ransom-A
Troj/Ransom-A is a Trojan for the Windows platform.
When run, Troj/Ransom-A creates the file <Start Menu>\Startup\winstart.exe and this file is set as hidden. The file winstart.exe is detected as Troj/Ransom-A.
Troj/Ransom-A displays the following message boxes when run:
"Deleted files are going to be saved into a hidden directory and replaced during uninstallation."
"(1) files are being deleted every 30 minutes"
Troj/Ransom-A displays pornographic pictures and the following message:
environment locked
windows locked
listen up muthafucka
is this computer valuable. it better not be.
is this a business computer. it better not be.
do you keep important company records or files on this computer.you'd better hope not.
because there are files scattered all over it tucked away in
invisible hidden folders undetectable by antivirus sofware
the only way to remove them and this message is by a CIDN number

Keywords:
@malware
@attack
@backdoors
@virus
@Trojan
@anti-virus
@algorithms
