All the (cyber) world’s a stage: Framing cyberbullying as a performance: 
Bullying is a multifaceted phenomenon which has been an issue for research for several decades. This study focussed on understanding female experiences of bullying and by extension cyberbullying. Having identified a gap in the literature regarding girls’ experiences and participation in bullying, the aim of this study was to explore bullying from a female perspective. Research has found that girls’ attempts to harm others tend to focus on damaging another child's friendships or feelings of inclusion within their peer groups. Bullying using technology is the latest manifestation of the phenomenon to attract research attention. This type of bullying is mainly referred to in the literature as ‘cyberbullying’, although it may also be referred to as ‘electronic bullying’ or ‘online social cruelty’ or internet harassment. There is a tendency for definitions of cyberbullying to comprise of two elements: (i) some or the whole definition of traditional bullying and; (ii) a list of electronic devices through which cyberbullying can occur. Willard defines cyberbullying as “sending or posting harmful material or engaging in other forms of social aggression using the Internet or other digital technologies”. This particular definition was useful for this study due to the emphasis of social aggression which is particularly relevant in discussions with young girls around female bullying. Some of the social media associated with cyberbullying may be used to conduct traditional bullying behaviour such as name calling, spreading rumours and harassment. Media commonly used in cyberbullying is often focussed around text messaging, pictures or photos or video clips, phone calls, email, chat rooms, instant messaging and websites. In terms of cyberspace, the audience may be larger than that of conventional bullying and may be potentially infinite. The evidence of how girls report using cyberspace for communication and interaction with each other in this study suggests that the audience contains a high peer presence. In contrast, the literature would seem to indicate that this space also has a low adult presence (Livingstone, 2008). These characteristics of cyberspace may result in greater fear and humiliation of the target compared to an offline performance of bullying. These factors illustrate to some extent how cyberbullying may result in intensifying the performance of bullying as the target may experience bullying in relatively safe physical spaces at any time, the audience may be made up of large numbers of their own peer group and the bully has the potential of remaining anonymous. Results would seem to suggest that while it may be easier to use cyberbullying as a way to bully others, it may cause greater distress for the target than more conventional forms of bullying.
