Effects of communication: The effects of text, audio, video, and in-person communication on bonding between friends: Considerable research on computer-mediated communication has examined online communication between strangers, but little is known about the emotional experience of connectedness between friends in digital environments. However, adolescents and emerging adults use digital communication primarily to communicate with existing friends rather than to make new connections. We compared feelings of emotional connectedness as they occurred in person and through digital communication among pairs of close friends in emerging adulthood. Fifty-eight young women, recruited in pairs of close friends, engaged in four conversations each: in-person, video chat, audio chat, and instant messaging (IM). Emerging adults are among the most avid users of digital communication technologies, including texting, instant messaging (IM), and video chat. Furthermore, today’s 18-29 year olds are often described as “digital natives” because they have grown up using these technologies, utilizing text-based tools to develop existing friendships during adolescence, a sensitive period for socioemotional development. While research has established that digital communication can enhance existing friendships over the long-term, a continuing concern among some is that youth are less “connected” than they were in the past or that increasing digital communication contributes to stunted socioemotional or empathic growth. This question is provocative, but difficult to test empirically. Bonding was defined as the momentary emotional experience of feeling connected to and affection for a friend. However, as digital communication more closely resembles in-person interaction, youth more effectively achieve emotional closeness. Video chat, which affords the ability to exchange both verbal and visual cues, more closely resembled in-person communication in terms of bonding than it did IM. Video chat is growing in popularity and is now available on mobile tools like smartphones and tablets. It is only one of several new digital technologies that rely on visual or audiovisual communication—the popular photo-texting application, Snapchat, is another example. As the technology continues to improve and becomes faster and clearer, we may see a tendency to prefer visual and audiovisual communication to textual communication in digital environments, allowing both adolescents and adults to more effectively connect.
