Quality of Friendship: The quality of online, offline, and mixed-mode friendships among users of a social networking site: The first aim of this study was to compare the quality of online, offline, and mixed-mode friendships (i.e., friendships that originate online and extend to offline settings) among users of a social networking site. The second aim was to investigate the relative contribution of proximity, perceived similarity, and social attraction to the quality of each of the three types of friendships. We surveyed 2,188 members of a Dutch social networking site. Results showed that the quality of all three types of friendships increased over time. The differences in quality between online and offline friendships remained significant over time, but those between mixed-mode and offline friendships disappeared. Proximity did not affect the quality of any of the three types of friendships. Perceived similarity was the most important predictor of online friendships, whereas social attraction was the most important predictor of mixed-mode and offline friendships. Our results are discussed in the light of both interpersonal and computer-mediated communication theories. Social capital is important in society. It has been linked to a variety of positive social outcomes, such as better public health, lower crime rates, and more efficient financial markets. Social capital can be defined as “the sum of resources, actual or virtual, that accrue to an individual or a group by virtue of possessing a durable network of more or less institutionalized relationships of mutual acquaintance an recognition”. Putnam (2000) distinguishes between two types of social capital: bridging and bonding. Bridging social capital is the benefit from weak ties, found between individuals with loose connections who may provide useful information, but typically not emotional support (Putnam, 2000; Grannovetter, 1983). Bonding social capital is the benefit from strong ties, found between individuals in emotionally close and high quality relationships, such as family and close friends. Although there is ample research about the effect of the Internet on bridging social capital, little empirical work has examined the effects of the Internet on bonding social capital.
