Digital Law
http://digiteen.wikispaces.com/Digital+Law

"Digital Law is defined as the electronic responsibility for actions, deeds which is either ethical or unethical. Digital responsibility deals with the ethics of technology. Unethical use manifests itself in form of theft and/or crime. Ethical manifests itself in the form of abiding by the laws of society." It is basically about what you are and are not allowed to do while surfing and using the Internet

Everybody should respect the law and abide by it. Not following the law can result in serious punishment. Examples of this behavior are like hacking into people’s personal details, pirate software, downloading music illegally and creating viruses or Trojan horses.

Identity theft is becoming a rising problem. Studies show that one in five families have been victims to this in the U.S. The thieves can steal your credit card number allowing them to buy or rent various products using your information. The worst thing is that you don't realize what is happening until you are sent bills or receive calls about different transactions. It takes months to restore all of your information and secure it all. Therefore everyone should take precautions.

Spoofing generally means to convince people to provide personal or financial information that lets the hacker commit credit card/bank fraud or other forms of identity theft. Spam criminals often use spoofing as an attempt to get into someone else's computer.

IP Spoofing" is a technique used to get access to computers, where the intruder sends a message to a computer with an IP address telling them that the message is coming from a trusted machine and person. To stop IP Spoofing packet filtering is a programm that blocks other packets getting into your network. This prevents an outside attacker from gaining access to an internal machine.

Software Piracy is copying and selling of unauthorized computer software, movies etc. This happens a lot in the Mexico, China, Indonesia, Russia, Brazil and Zimbabwe but many other countries are also involved. Most of these countries have Copyright Infringement Laws but many citizens do not abide by them however some countries are more strict about them than others.
There are 4 types of software piracy;
Industrial Piracy: An individual or group attempts duplication and distribution on a large scale for profit.
Coporate Piracy: Unprotected contents are shared through net works such as peer-to-peer, LAN and Internet.
Reseller Piracy: Involves computer hardware companies selling ma chines with illegal copies of software preloaded on their hard drive.
Home Piracy: Includes everything from trading disks with friends to running a not-for-profit bulletin board for the purpose of illegal software distribution.

Computer hacking is the practice of changing computer hardware and software. People who are involved with such activities are often called hackers. Since the word “hack” has long been used to describe someone who is not able to do their job very well. Some hackers claim this term is offensive, since they are very skilled in their topics.Computer hacking is most common among teenagers and young adults, although there are many older hackers as well. Many hackers consider computer hacking an “art” form. They often enjoy programming and have expert-level skills in one particular program.

Keywords:
@responsibility
@crime
@hacking
@pirate software
@virus
@identity
@identity theft
@spoofing
@IP Spoofing
@IP address
