Gmail Killer Project

Facebook's Gmail Killer, Project Titan, Is Coming  - 2010
http://techcrunch.com/2010/11/11/facebook-gmail-titan/

Project Titan — a web-based email client that we hear is unofficially referred to internally as its “Gmail killer”. Now we’ve heard from sources that this is indeed what’s coming on Monday during Facebook’s special event, alongside personal @facebook.com email addresses for users.

This isn’t a big surprise — the event invites Facebook sent out hinted strongly that the news would have something to do with its Inbox, sparking plenty of speculation that the event could be related to Titan. Our understanding is that this is more than just a UI refresh for Facebook’s existing messaging service with POP access tacked on. Rather, Facebook is building a full-fledged webmail client, and while it may only be in early stages come its launch Monday, there’s a huge amount of potential here.

Facebook has the world’s most popular photos product, the most popular events product, and soon will have a very popular local deals product as well.  It can tweak the design of its webmail client to display content from each of these in a seamless fashion (and don’t forget messages from games, or payments via Facebook Credits). And there’s also the social element: Facebook knows who your friends are and how closely you’re connected to them; it can probably do a pretty good job figuring out which personal emails you want to read most and prioritize them accordingly.

Oh, and assuming our sources prove accurate, this explains the timing of the Google/Facebook slap fight over contact information.

'Email is dead' 
claims Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg as he launches 'Google Gmail killer' messaging service
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1329979/Facebook-email-Mark-Zuckerberg-launches-Google-Gmail-killer.html#ixzz2mvVOpEaW 

Facebook is to launch its own email service, its founder said last night.
In a long-awaited announcement, Mark Zuckerberg unveiled his website’s new messaging system and hailed the death of email as we know it.
The 26-year-old said it would go the way of the letter because it was too slow and too formal.
In its place he showcased Facebook’s own version which integrates all web and text-based communications.
The service, perceived as a direct rival to Google's Gmail, marks a new front in the ongoing and increasingly bitter battle between Facebook and Google to gain the loyalty of users.
Mr Zuckerberg revealed that, as rumoured, the 500million people signed up to Facebook will have access to a ‘Facebook.com’ email address.
Entire conversation histories going back years will also be saved into users’ accounts and spam will be completely filtered out, he claimed.
'We don’t think that a modern messaging system is going to be email,' Zuckerberg said at a press conference in San Francisco.
We want people to be able to communicate in whatever way they choose: email, text or Facebook message.'
Speculation had been mounting that Facebook’s email account would be a ‘Gmail Killer’, in reference to Google’s successful email service.
Even though Zuckerberg denied this was the case, Facebook’s 500million users will mean it poses a huge threat to all its competitors.
'Facebook.com': Potentially 500million users for its new messaging service.
Hotmail and Yahoo! have 362million and 273million users respectively compared to Gmail's 193million.
Facebook’s new email system is modelled on instant messaging and on-line chat and will allow people to simplify their communications regardless of how they choose to do it.
Texts, email or instant messages will all come into one ‘feed’ and users can respond in any way they want.
One person could text a friend, for example, who will see the message come up on their Facebook page instantly and respond via an instant message or email.
Mr Zuckerberg said that he was changing Facebook because young people found email was too much of a ‘cognitive load’.
He said of the new programme: ‘It’s not email. It handles email... along with all the different ways you want to communicate.

EMAIL BY NUMBERS (2010)
Hotmail: 362million users.
Yahoo!: 273million users.
Gmail: 193million users.

'It’s true people are going to be able to have Facebook.com email addresses but this is not email. Email is one way people are going to use this system, but we don’t even think it’s going to be the primary way.
‘The goal of this product is to make it that we can seamlessly integrate across all of these different products very easily.’
Facebook's director of engineering Andrew Bosworth said that, over the course of time, users could look back on their relationships with friends going back years in a modern-day version of keeping letters in a box.
The changes will be rolled out over the coming months on an invite-only basis before being offered to all users worldwide. Commenting on the launch, Eden Zoller, principal analyst at Ovum, said: 'An email service from Facebook makes a lot of sense. 
'It has a huge base of 500million users that already love to communicate and share, and Facebook is giving them richer ways to do this through virtual gifts, games, location and even voice thanks to the recent integration deal with Skype.
'Adding email to the mix is a logical step and Facebook could tap into user data to provide an attractive, highly personalised service. You would also expect it to push mobile features given its big move in this direction. '
The move will certainly alarm Facebook's nearest rivals such as Yahoo! and Google.
In recent months the relationship between Facebook and Google has become increasingly fraught amid the poaching of staff and efforts to throw up barricades to prevent users from easily shifting information, such as email contact lists, between the two platforms.

Keywords:
@death media
@email
@Facebook
@communication
@message
@chat
@project titan
@Google
@Gmail
@Skype
@Yahoo
@Hotmail
@Mark Zuckerberg
