Hacker

Hacker is a term that has been used to mean a variety of different things in computing. Depending on the context although, the term could refer to a person in any one of several distinct (but not completely disjointed) communities and subcultures:
People committed to computer security, primarily concerns those who work debugging or fixing security problems (White hats), differentiate from the morally ambiguous Grey hats and the illegal hackers, crackers, for the shake of language, who perform unauthorized remote computer break-ins via a communication networks such as the Internet (Black hats). See Hacker (computer security).
A community of enthusiast computer programmers and systems designers, originated in the 1960s around the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's (MIT's) Tech Model Railroad Club (TMRC) and MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. This community is notable for launching the free software movement. The World Wide Web and the Internet itself are also hacker artifacts. The Request for Comments RFC 1392 amplifies this meaning as " person who delights in having an intimate understanding of the internal workings of a system, computers and computer networks in particular."
The hobbyist home computing community, focusing on hardware in the late 1970s (e.g. the Homebrew Computer Club) and on software (video games, software cracking (this are in real illegal hackers, turning his designation into crackers, for the shake of language), the demoscene) in the 1980s/1990s. The community included Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, Bill Gates and Paul Allen and created the personal computing industry.
Each of these hacker community/culture examples conform to the definition of an umbrella phenomenon: creative consumers.
Today, mainstream (mediums) usage of "hacker" might mostly refer to computer criminals, erroneously noted continuously by the experts during the history, due to the mass media usage of the word since the 1980s and the continuous negligence/incompetence to these days. This includes what hacker slang calls "script kiddies," people breaking into computers using programs written by others, with very little knowledge about the way they work. This usage has become so predominant that the general public is unaware that different meanings exist. While the self-designation of hobbyists as hackers is acknowledged by all three kinds of hackers, and the computer security hackers accept all uses of the word, people from the programmer subculture consider the computer intrusion related usage incorrect, and emphasize the difference between the two by calling security breakers "crackers" (analogous to a safecracker).

Currently, "hacker" is used in two main conflicting ways
- as someone who is able to subvert computer security; if doing so for malicious purposes, the person can also be called a cracker.
- a member of the Unix or the free and open source software programming subcultures, or one who uses such a style of software or hardware development.

The controversy is usually based on the assumption that the term originally meant someone messing about with something in a positive sense, that is, using playful cleverness to achieve a goal. But then, it is supposed, the meaning of the term shifted over the decades since it first came into use in a computer context and came to refer to computer criminals.
As usage has spread more widely, the primary misunderstanding of newer users conflicts with the original primary emphasis. In popular usage and in the media, computer intruders or criminals is the exclusive meaning today, with associated pejorative connotations. (For example, "An Internet 'hacker' broke through state government security systems in March.") In the computing community, the primary meaning is a complimentary description for a particularly brilliant programmer or technical expert. (For example, "Linus Torvalds, the creator of Linux, is considered by some to be a hacker.") A large segment of the technical community insist the latter is the "correct" usage of the word (see the Jargon File definition below).
The mainstream media's current usage of the term may be traced back to the early 1980s. When the term was introduced to wider society by the mainstream media in 1983, even those in the computer community referred to computer intrusion as "hacking", although not as the exclusive use of that word. In reaction to the increasing media use of the term exclusively with the criminal connotation, the computer community began to differentiate their terminology. Alternative terms such as "cracker" were coined in an effort to distinguish between those adhering to the historical use of the term "hack" within the programmer community and those performing computer break-ins. Further terms such as "black hat", "white hat" and "gray hat" developed when laws against breaking into computers came into effect, to distinguish criminal activities and those activities which were legal.
However, since network news use of the term pertained primarily to the criminal activities despite this attempt by the technical community to preserve and distinguish the original meaning, the mainstream media and general public continue to describe computer criminals with all levels of technical sophistication as "hackers" and do not generally make use of the word in any of its non-criminal connotations. Members of the media sometimes seem unaware of the distinction, grouping legitimate "hackers" such as Linus Torvalds and Steve Wozniak along with criminal "crackers".
As a result of this difference, the definition is the subject of heated controversy. The wider dominance of the pejorative connotation is resented by many who object to the term being taken from their cultural jargon and used negatively, including those who have historically preferred to self-identify as hackers. Many advocate using the more recent and nuanced alternate terms when describing criminals and others who negatively take advantage of security flaws in software and hardware. Others prefer to follow common popular usage, arguing that the positive form is confusing and unlikely to become widespread in the general public. A minority still use the term in both original senses despite the controversy, leaving context to clarify (or leave ambiguous) which meaning is intended.
However, the positive definition of hacker was widely used as the predominant form for many years before the negative definition was popularized. "Hacker" can therefore be seen as a shibboleth, identifying those who use the technically oriented sense (as opposed to the exclusively intrusion-oriented sense) as members of the computing community.
A possible middle ground position has been suggested, based on the observation that "hacking" describes a collection of skills which are used by hackers of both descriptions for differing reasons. The analogy is made to locksmithing, specifically picking locks, which—aside from its being a skill with a fairly high tropism to 'classic' hacking—is a skill which can be used for good or evil. The primary weakness of this analogy is the inclusion of script kiddies in the popular usage of "hacker", despite the lack of an underlying skill and knowledge base. Sometimes, hacker also is simply used synonymous to geek: "A true hacker is not a group person. He's a person who loves to stay up all night, he and the machine in a love-hate relationship... They're kids who tended to be brilliant but not very interested in conventional goals[...] It's a term of derision and also the ultimate compliment."
Fred Shapiro thinks that "the common theory that 'hacker' originally was a benign term and the malicious connotations of the word were a later perversion is untrue." He found out that the malicious connotations were present at MIT in 1963 already (quoting The Tech, an MIT student newspaper) and then referred to unauthorized users of the telephone network, that is, the phreaker movement that developed into the computer security hacker subculture of today.

An encounter of the programmer and the computer security hacker subculture occurred at the end of the 1980s, when a group of computer security hackers, sympathizing with the Chaos Computer Club (who disclaimed any knowledge in these activities), broke into computers of American military organizations and academic institutions. They sold data from these machines to the Soviet secret service, one of them in order to fund his drug addiction. The case could be solved when Clifford Stoll, a scientist working as a system administrator, found ways to log the attacks and to trace them back (with the help of many others). 23, a German film adaption with fictional elements, shows the events from the attackers' perspective. Stoll described the case in his book The Cuckoo's Egg and in the TV documentary The KGB, the Computer, and Me from the other perspective. According to Eric S. Raymond, it "nicely illustrates the difference between 'hacker' and 'cracker'. Stoll's portrait of himself, his lady Martha, and his friends at Berkeley and on the Internet paints a marvelously vivid picture of how hackers and the people around them like to live and how they think."

*wikipedia

Latest Hacking Software

RECENT UPDATED CATEGORY
Netflix Free Account Generator
Fake Webcam 2013 Free Download
Ultimate Facebook Hacker v3.5.1
Skype Credit Generator v2.2
Windows 7 Keygen And Activator v2.42
AV Voice Changer Software Gold v7.0.14
Zynga Poker Hack v4.3.8 Free Download
Credit Card Generator v8.5.1 Free Download
Facebook Account Hacker V2.4 Free Download

MOST DOWNLOADED CATEGORY
Facebook Password Stealer 2013
WiFi Hack Tool For Android Mobiles
Xbox Live Microsoft Points Generator v4.8.3
Advanced Yahoo Hacker 2013
PSN Code Generator v5
Wifi Hack Password 2013
Skype Hacker v1.4 Updated 2013
Twitter Account Hacking Software 2013
007 facebook hack v1.0 Free Download

Recent Post Category
AV Voice Changer Software Gold v7.0.14 Free Download
Adobe Photoshop CS6 Serial Keys Free Download
Advanced Yahoo Hacker 2013 Free Download
Amazon Gift Card Generator 2013 Free Download
Convert X To DVD Free Download
Facebook Clone 2010 Free Download
How To Hack Into Email Accounts - Black Hat Hacking
Netflix Free Account Generator Free Download
PayPal Hacking Software Free Download
123 Web-Messenger-Server-Software(Mac)
Best Twitter Clone Script 2013 Free Download
CPA Reward Facebook App 2013
Call Recorder and Auto Answer for Skype
Chat Pop Box Free Download
Facebook Hacker v3.5.1
Facebook Password Finder 2013
Facebook Password Generator v2.5
Facebook Password Hacker 2013
Facebook Profile Viewer 2013
Facebook Social Clone Script PHP Web site 2013
Hacking Ebook Free Download
Hotmail Hacking Software 2013 free Download
MorphVOX - Voice Changer 2013 Free Download
MySpace Mobile for Android Download v1.8.2
PSN Code Generator v5 - Playstation Network
PrettyMay for Skype 2013 Free Download
Skype Message Sender 2013 Free Download

* http://latest-hackingsoftware2013.blogspot.nl/

The guardian:
Cupid Media hack exposed 42m online dating passwords, 20 November 2013
Niche online dating provider admits that January breach exposed unencrypted user information – including dates of birth
Up to 42 million peoples' unencrypted names, dates of birth, email addresses and passwords have been stolen by hackers who broke into a company that runs niche online dating sites.
Cupid Media, which runs niche online dating sites such as UkraineDate.com, MilitaryCupid.com and IranianSinglesConnection.com, was hacked in January but did not admit to the break-in until it was exposed by security researcher Brian Krebs.
Cupid Media is not connected with OK Cupid, an American dating site.
The data stolen from Cupid Media, which runs 35 dating sites altogether, was discovered by Krebs on the same server that housed user information stolen from Adobe, who disclosed their breach earlier in November. But unlike Adobe, which used some encryption on the data, Cupid Media stored user data in plain text. As well as passwords, that includes full names, email addresses, and dates of birth.
Cupid's managing director Andrew Bolton admitted to Krebs that the breach had occurred in January 2013. At the time, "we took what we believed to be appropriate actions to notify affected customers and reset passwords for a particular group of user accounts," Bolton said. “We are currently in the process of double-checking that all affected accounts have had their passwords reset and have received an email notification."
However like Adobe, Cupid has only notified active users who are affected by the data breach.
In the case of the software giant, there were more than 100m inactive, disabled and test accounts affected, as well as the 38m to which it admitted at the time.
Bolton told Krebs that "the number of active members affected by this event is considerably less than the 42 million that you have previously quoted". He also confirmed that, since the breach, the company has started encrypting passwords using techniques called salting and hashing – an industry-standard safety measure which renders most leaks harmless.
Jason Hart of Safenet commented: "The true impact of the breach is likely to be huge. Yet, if this data had been encrypted in the first place then all hackers would have found is scrambled information, rendering the theft pointless."
He added: "Many companies shy away from encryption due to fear that it will be either too expensive or complicated. The reality is that it doesn’t have to be either. With hacking attempts becoming almost a daily occurrence, it’s clear that being breached is not a question of 'if' but 'when'. Although their motives may be different, a hacker’s ultimate goal is to gain access to sensitive data, so companies need to ensure they are taking the necessary precautions." 
He suggested that too many security departments are "holding on to the past" in their security strategy by trying to prevent breaches rather than safeguarding the data.

*http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2013/nov/20/cupid-media-hack-exposed-online-dating-passwords


Keywords:
@hacking
@computing
@security
@illegal
@computer break-ins
@communication networks
@Internet
@programmer
@MIT
@free software movement
@WWW
@creative consumers
@computer criminals
@crime
@hobby

