Levels of Web: deepweb.wikia.com: The idea of an underground internet where anything can be bought or sold may seem like an alien concept to some. However, this world does exist. Hidden away from major search engines and unreachable from normal internet browsers, the world of the deep web is a dark (and sometimes scary) place where illegal activities run the show. Guns, drugs and a whole manner of other illegal things lurk just below the surface of the internet. There are, supposedly, 5 levels of the deep web (not counting Level 0). The levels are supposed to be more and more difficult to access following their number; for example, only a simple proxy is needed to access Level 2, but complex hardware is apparently needed to access parts of Level 4, and all the following levels. The information contained in the deep web is likely to change following the levels: government secrets are contained in Level 5, while CP and snuff can be found in Levels 2, 3 and 4.  Level 0 – Common Web: you browse it everyday: YouTube, Facebook, Wikipedia and other famous or easily accessible websites. Level 1 – Surface Web: accessible through normal means, but contains “darker” websites, such as Reddit. Level 2 – Bergie Web: still normally accessible, “underground” but still indexed websites, such as 4chan. Level 3 – Deep Web: The first part of this level has to be accessed with a proxy. It contains CP, gore, hacking websites… Here begins the Deep Web. Second part of this level is only accessible through Tor, and contains more sensible information. Level 4 – Charter Web: This level is also divided in two parts. The first can be accessed through Tor. Things such as drug and human trafficking, banned movies and books and black markets exist there. The second part can be accessed through a hardware modification: a “Closed Shell System”. Here, shit becomes serious. This part of the Charter Web contains hardcore CP, experimental hardware information (“Gadolinium Gallium Garnet Quantum Electronic Processors”…), but also darker information, such as the “Law of 13″, World War 2 experiments, and even the location of Atlantis. Level 5 – Mariana's Web
