Nodocentrism: www.p2pfoundation.net , nodocentrism = "rules governing interaction between nodes, and between nodes and what is outside of the network. Basically, nearness in a network is constituted on the basis of nodes recognizing other nodes. Nodocentrism constructs a social reality in which nodes can only 'see' other nodes, and only nodes deserve to be accounted for." Characteristic of Networked Proximity (= nearness*), defined by Ulises Mejias: "One way to define social media or participatory media is by using this concept of social relevancy. We could say that participatory media open up new possibilities for elements in a social system to be relevant to each other, to belong to the same social whole, regardless of how great or how small the physical distance between them." *'Nearness': A) does not simply describes physical distance, but our affective relationship to something. B) Something that is not physically present can be part of our social environment. C) If something generates information and we are capable of receiving that information, it can become socially relevant. D) in a network, relevance is determined by informational availability, not physical proximity, E) social networks are assemblages of human and non-human actors. “Nodocentrism means that while networks are extremely efficient at establishing links between nodes, they embody a bias against knowledge of – and engagement with – anything that is not a node in the same network. The point is not that nodocentrism in social networks impoverishes social life or devalues the near: nodes behave neither anti-socially (they thrive in linking to other nodes) nor anti-locally (they can link to other nodes in their immediate surrounding just as easily as they can link to remote nodes). The point, rather, is that nodocentrism constructs a social reality in which nodes can only see other nodes.” Ulises Mejias: "nearness in networks has little to do with physical distance. Instead, social relevancy is defined in terms of informational availability. If it exists in the network, it exists in reality; if it does not exist in the network, it might as well not exist. If it exists in the network, it can be experienced as near, because in the network the distance between nodes is zero. If it does not exist in the network, it is experienced as far or irrelevant, because the distance between a node and something that is not in the network is, for all practical purposes, infinite.
