Online Community

An online community is a virtual community that exists online and whose members enable its existence through taking part in membership ritual. An online community can take the form of an information system where anyone can post content, such as a Bulletin board system or one where only a restricted number of people can initiate posts, such as Weblogs. Online communities have also become a supplemental form of communication between people who know each other primarily in real life. Many means are used in social software separately or in combination, including text-based chat rooms and forums that use voice, video text or avatars. Significant socio-technical change may have resulted from the proliferation of such Internet-based social networking services.

The idea of a community is not a new concept. What is new, however, is transferring it over into the online world. Before, a community was defined as a group from a single location. If you lived in the designated area, then you became a part of that community. Interaction between community members was done primarily face-to-face and in a social setting. This definition for community no longer applies. In the online world, social interactions no longer have to be face-to-face or based on proximity, instead they can be with literally anyone anywhere.
The study of communities has had to adapt along with the new technologies. Many earlier researchers used ethnography to attempt to understand what people do in online spaces, how they express themselves, what motivates them, how they govern themselves, what attracts people to participate, and why some people prefer to observe rather than contribute. Many other techniques have come about in an attempt to try and adjust to this new medium. 
Online communities can congregate around a shared interest, but can be spread across multiple websites. There may be more than one website to go to find any one online community.
What is particularly tricky about online communities is that their meaning can change depending on who is defining them. Universally, however, there are things that show signs of a community. They are:
Content: articles, information, and news about a topic of interest to a group of people.
Forums or newsgroups and email: so that your community members can communicate in delayed fashion.
Chat and instant messaging: so that the community members can communicate more immediately.
Although many possibilities probably come to mind some examples of successful Internet Communities are:
Buddy Pic: where you upload a picture of yourself and are judged based on it.
Something Awful: Something awful has been around since 1999. It is a comedy forum where users post comedy ideas. It has been responsible for many Internet fads over the years.
Gaia Online: is a large online community with 23 million registered accounts. It is mostly a community that discusses anime and video games.

The Development Of Online Communities
There is a set of values to consider when developing an online community. Some of these values include: opportunity, education, culture, democracy, human services, equality within the economy, information, sustainability, and communication. In reference to an online community, the developer's main focus is to create a technology that adheres to the interests, as well as the social and basic needs, of the community. An online community's main goal is to serve as a common ground for people who share the same interests as one another. Some individuals are not confident when communicating face-to-face with others, and the online community provides a place for these individuals to practice techniques that will help them become more confident in their communication skills. People who are shy or insecure when it comes to face-to-face communication are able to use these communities to get to know other people without having to directly show their shyness or insecurities. Individuals are able to talk with people who share their same interests just in a different form of communication.

When online communities first developed, they were seen as essentially different than face-to-face communication. However, today, being involved in online communities has become a normal routine in many people's lives all over the world. People use online communities to keep up with events, such as such as upcoming church or sporting events, that are going on in their local communities. Online communities also form around activities or hobbies, such as online gaming or fashion blogging. They have also become an important part of education. Students are able to take classes online, and they are able to communicate with their professors and peers through online courses. Businesses have also started using online communities to communicate with their customers about product and service enhancements and to share new information about the business. A number of online communities related to health care help inform, advise, and support patients and community members who are suffering from illness or other health issues. Other online communities allow a wide variety of professionals to come together to share their thoughts and ideas on certain topics or issues.
When developing an online community, it is important to have the right technologies necessary to keep members interested, manage assets, and uphold community relations. Everything needs to be in place and organized in order for the online community to be successful and usable. The developers take into consideration whether or not all the online community members are good at using technology. If the online community is not workable or usable for some users, they will be discouraged, in turn, leading them to not want to use the online community(ies) at all. Also, to make certain that online communities are in the members' best interests, the developers are able to communicate with someone or a group of people within the local community to find out what the community as a whole likes to see online as part of the online community. Surveys and discussion boards where members are able to post their feedback are an essential part in developing an online community due to the fact that community needs, as well as individual needs, are always changing. There is barely any face-to-face communication in the online community world, therefore developers' want to make sure that all of the participating members are content and at ease with other members.

Online communities were developed to encourage individuals to come together to teach and learn from one another. They open the door for collaborative learning and focus more on how individuals learn from each rather than how they learn from an instructor. Online communities encourage self learners to discuss and learn about real-world problems/situations as well as focus on things such as teamwork, collaborative thinking, personal experiences, et cetera. Members of online communities are entitled to their own opinions and thoughts, but the members are also encouraged to learn from other online community member's experiences and thoughts/opinions as well.

Because of online communities, for the first time it is possible to be connected to hundreds of millions of people at the same time. The internet has become a medium of communication and due to low cost computing and technological innovations in voice and messaging techniques, it will likely continue to grow and spread.
Cost plays a role in all aspects and stages for online communities. Fairly cheap and easily attainable technologies and programs have also influenced the increase in establishment of online communities. While payment is necessary to participate in some online communities (such as certain dating websites or for monthly game subscriptions), many other sites are free to users (such as social networking services Facebook and Twitter). Because of deregulation and the increased internet access and usage rates online community popularity has escalated. Online communities provide instant gratification, entertainment, and learning. Online community participants can communicate with one or many friends at one time, receive feedback from others (friends, family, and strangers), and obtain knowledge, whether it be sought after or stumbled upon. The medium’s connectivity has significant implications for the way that society interacts as individuals and as a collective. Individualism is shrinking while the prospect of a “global village” is becoming more and more apparent. Online communities are dynamic by nature and it is important that researchers and organizations have the power to classify them. For example it is important to know the security, access, and technology requirements of a given type of community as it evolves from an open forum to a private and regulated forum. 

An article entitled "The real value of on-line communities," written by A Armstrong and J Hagel of the Harvard Business Review, addresses a handful of elements that are key to the growth of an online community and its success in drawing in members. In this example, the article which was available on mendeley.com focuses specifically on online communities related to business, but its points can be transferred and can apply to any online community in general as well. The article addresses four main categories of business-based online communities, but states that a truly successful one will combine qualities of each of them: communities of transaction, communities of interest, communities of fantasy, and communities of relationship. Anubhav Choudhury, from incrediblogger.net, provides basic descriptions of each of these four types of online communities. Before continuing on to these types though, it is important that any confusion regarding the meaning of an online community is cleared up. A simple and clear definition is offered by Constance Elise Porter of Notre Dame in a paper entitled "A Typology of Virtual Communities: A Multi-Disciplinary Foundation for Future Research": "a virtual community is defined as an aggregation of individuals or business partners who interact around a shared interest, where the interaction is at least partially supported and/or mediated by technology and guided by some protocols or norms."

- Communities of transaction emphasize the importance of buying and selling products in a social online manner where people must interact in order to complete the transaction.
- Communities of interest involve the online interaction of people with specific knowledge on a certain topic.
- Communities of fantasy encourage people to participate in online alternative forms of reality, such as games where they are represented by avatars.
- Communities of relationship often reveal or at least partially protect someone's identity while allowing them to communicate with others, such as in online dating services.

Source: wikipedia

Keywords:
@online
@virtual
@community
@social network
@online manner
@alternative reality
@avatar
@profile
@identity
@communication
@Facebook
@Twitter
@membership ritual
@posts
@chat room
@forum
@networking services
@no proximity
