Post Internet Art

Gene McHugh: 29th December 2009

Post Internet Art is not about the Internet. It is not about art. It's about both.
The Internet changed everything - that includes art. Post Internet artists are, like Johns and Rauschenberg, ontological questioners. They are philosophical.
Post Internet art bings the network into the vertical posture of art.

Post-Internet: 
- New Media art made after the launch of World Wide Web.
- when the Internet is less a novelty and more banality
- Marisa Olson's definition: The yield (vystřídat, dát přednost, vzdát se) of surfing and computer use.
- what Guthrie Lonergan described as Internet Aware - when the photo of art object is more widely dispersed (rozptýlený) that the object itself.
- art from Internet world that mutates to the conventions of the art world

http://122909a.com/?cat=1

What about what we mean when we say “Internet” changed so drastically that we can speak of “post Internet”? On some general level, the rise of social networking and the professionalization of web design reduced the technical nature of network computing, shifting the Internet from a specialized world for nerds and the technologically-minded, to a mainstream world for nerds, the technologically-minded and grandmas and sports fans and business people and painters and everyone else.  Here comes everybody.

Furthermore, any hope for the Internet to make things easier, to reduce the anxiety of my existence, was simply over—it failed—and it was just another thing to deal with.  What we mean when we say “Internet” became not a thing in the world to escape into, but rather the world one sought escape from…sigh…It became the place where business was conducted, and bills were paid.  It became the place where people tracked you down.

Accompanying this change in what we mean when we say “Internet,” there was a change in what we mean when we say “art on the Internet” and “post Internet art” served as shorthand for this change.

On some general level, the shift of the Internet to a mainstream world in which A LOT of people read the newspaper, play games, meet sexual partners, go to the bathroom, etc. necessitated a shift in what we mean when we say “art on the Internet” from a specialized world for nerds and the technologically-minded, to a mainstream world for nerds, the technologically-minded and painters and sculptors and conceptual artists and agitprop artists and everyone else. No matter what your deal was/is as an artist, you had/have to deal with the Internet—not necessarily as a medium in the sense of formal aesthetics (glitch art, .gifs, etc), but as a distribution platform, a machine for altering and re-channeling work.  What Seth Price called “Dispersion.”  What Oliver Laric called “Versions.”

http://jstchillin.org/artie/pdf/The_Image_Object_Post-Internet_a4.pdf

Post-Internet also serves as an important semantic distinction from the two historical artistic modes with which it 
is most often associated: New Media Art and Conceptualism. Post-Internet art instead exists somewhere between these two poles. Post-Internet objects and images are developed with concern to their particular materiality as well as their vast variety of methods of presentation and dissemination.
Art is a social object.

http://www.newrafael.com/post-internet-art/
I find the word “post” misleading. It implies that we’ve moved one step further, beyond the internet, into new territory. We live in a post-newspaper world, post-tv, post music industry, things are changing. But I don’t know anything that feels “post-internet”. It’s much too soon for that word.
The futurists were not post-industrial. They were inspired by the industrial revolution and used that as the subject of their art. We might be shifting from an industrial society to an information based one. I am very excited to find out what the next step will be, when the true post-internet will be invented.

Key Words:
@ Post Internet Blog
@ Gene McHugh
@ http://122909a.com/
@ Marisa Olson - http://www.marisaolson.com/
@ Rafael Rosendaal

