Question Answering Issues: a roadmap of research in QA (2002) with following issues: I. Question classes: Different types of questions (e.g., "What is the capital of Liechtenstein?" vs. "Why does a rainbow form?" vs. "Did Marilyn Monroe and Cary Grant ever appear in a movie together?") require the use of different strategies to find the answer. Question classes are arranged hierarchically in taxonomies. II. Question processing: The same information request can be expressed in various ways, some interrogative ("Who is the King of Lesotho?") and some assertive ("Tell me the name of the King of Lesotho."). A semantic model of question understanding and processing would recognize equivalent questions, regardless of how they are presented. III. Context and QA: Questions are usually asked within a context and answers are provided within that specific context. IV. Data sources for QA: Before a question can be answered, it must be known what knowledge sources are available and relevant. V. Answer extraction: Answer extraction depends on the complexity of the question, on the answer type provided by question processing, on the actual data where the answer is searched, on the search method and on the question focus and context. VI: Answer formulation: examples, when the question classification indicates that the answer type is a name (of a person, organization, shop or disease, etc.), a quantity (monetary value, length, size, distance, etc.) or a date (e.g. the answer to the question, "On what day did Christmas fall in 1989?"). VII. Real time question answering: There is need for developing QA systems that are capable of extracting answers from large data sets in several seconds. VIII. Multilingual QA. IX. Interactive QA. X. Advanced reasoning for QA: More sophisticated questioners expect answers that are outside the scope of written texts or structured databases. XI. Information clustering for QA: a new trend that originated to increase the accuracy of question answering systems through search space reduction. XII. User profiling for QA: The user profile captures data about the questioner, comprising context data, domain of interest, reasoning schemes frequently used by the questioner, common ground established within different dialogues between the system and the user, and so forth. The profile may be represented as a predefined template, where each template slot represents a different profile feature. Profile templates may be nested one within another.
