Second Life 10th Anniversary

June 2013 marked Second Life's 10th anniversary where users plan to have parties, dances, live music, DJ events and celebrations. The SL10B community held the event on June 16–29, 2013 with the main event on June 23, 2013, when Second Life celebrates its 10th anniversary. The event included exhibitions, performances, live music and more. In the welcome areas, there are showcases including the Avatar Central, History Walk and the time capsules. There was also Bear Island on the east side of the map and the Corn Field on the west side of the map. There was free gear and apparel at the vendors throughout the area. There were special limited items on the Second Life Marketplace that goes with SL10B, including a special SL10B avatar. On June 3, 2013, a Youtube video was uploaded of an interview featuring Rod Humble, CEO of Linden Lab. There were also events and parties held elsewhere on the Second Life grid. Over the last 10 years, 36 million accounts were created, US$3.6 billion was spent on virtual assets and the equivalent total time users spent on SL is 217,266 years. Today, more than 1 million people visit Second Life monthly. Games, events and Adventure/fantasty dominate the Destination guide. An average of about 400,000 new registrations are created monthly, 1.2 million daily transactions were conducted for virtual assets. 2.1 million user-created virtual assets are for sale, with the most purchased are women's hairstyles, and Second Life landmass is nearly 700 square miles (slightly over 1810 square kilometres).

Second Life is an online virtual world developed by Linden Lab. It was launched on June 23, 2003. A number of free client programs, or Viewers, enable Second Life users to interact with each other through avatars (also called Residents). Residents can explore the world (known as the grid), meet other residents, socialize, participate in individual and group activities, and create and trade virtual property and services with one another. Second Life is intended for people aged 16 and over.

Built into the software is a three-dimensional modeling tool based on simple geometric shapes that allows residents to build virtual objects. There is also a procedural scripting language, Linden Scripting Language, which can be used to add interactivity to objects. Sculpted prims (sculpties), mesh, textures for clothing or other objects, animations, and gestures can be created using external software and imported. The Second Life terms of service provide that users retain copyright for any content they create, and the server and client provide simple digital rights management functions. However, Linden Lab changed their terms of service in August 2013, to be able to use user-generated content for any purpose. Because of this change, some content creators withdrew their builds from Second Life and others limited their uploads and creations in-world. Some texture suppliers also banned the use of their textures in Second Life.

Keywords:
@Second Life
@celebration
@SL10B
@community
@avatar
@Linden Lab
@online
@virtual world
@script
@digital laws
