Silk Road (marketplace)

Silk Road is an online black market. It is operated as a Tor hidden service, such that online users are able to browse it anonymously and securely without potential traffic monitoring. The website launched in February 2011; development had begun six months prior. Silk Road is an underground website,sometimes called the "Amazon.com of illegal drugs"or the "eBay for drugs".
Initially, buyers could register for free, but there were a limited number of new seller accounts available; new sellers had to purchase an account via an auction. Later, a fixed fee for each new seller account was chosen to mitigate the possibility of malicious individuals' distributing tainted goods.
On October 2, 2013, the FBI shut down Silk Road. They arrested Ross William Ulbricht on charges of alleged murder for hire and narcotics trafficking violation and identified him as the founder and chief operator "Dread Pirate Roberts". On November 6, 2013 Forbes and Vice reported that Silk Road 2.0 was online and being run by former administrators of Silk Road and that a different user was now using the name Dread Pirate Roberts.

Products

As of March 2013, the site had 10,000 products for sale by vendors, 70% were drugs that are considered contraband in most jurisdictions. 340 varieties of drugs were being sold, including heroin, LSD, and cannabis. The site's terms of service prohibit the sale of "anything who's purpose is to harm or defraud." This includes child pornography, stolen credit cards, assassinations, and weapons of mass destruction. There were also legal goods and services for sale, such as apparel, art, books, cigarettes, erotica, jewelry, and writing services. A sister site, called "The Armory", sold weapons (primarily guns) during 2012 but was shut down due to a lack of demand.
Buyers can leave reviews of seller's products on the site and in an associated forum where crowdsourcing provides information about the best sellers and worst scammers.

Sales

Based on data from 3 February 2012 to 24 July 2012, an estimated $15 million in transactions were made annually on Silk Road. Twelve months later, Nicolas Christin, the study's author, said in an interview that a major increase in volume to "somewhere between $30 million and $45 million" would not surprise him. Buyers and sellers conducted all transactions with bitcoins (BTC), a cryptocurrency that provides a certain degree of anonymity. Silk Road held buyers' bitcoins in escrow until the order had been received and a hedging mechanism allowed sellers to opt for the value of bitcoins held in escrow to be fixed to their value in US$ at the time of the sale to mitigate against Bitcoin's volatility. Any changes in the price of bitcoins during transit were covered by Dread Pirate Roberts.
The criminal complaint published when Ulbricht was arrested included information the FBI gained from a system image of the Silk Road server collected on July 23, 2013. It noted that, "From February 6, 2011 to July 23, 2013 there were approximately 1,229,465 transactions completed on the site." The value of the transactions over this period are equivalent to "roughly $1.2 billion in revenue and $79.8 million in commissions" and involved 146,946 buyers and 3,877 vendors.

Keywords:
@black market
@online
@Tor
@deep web
@hidden
@anonymity
@illegal
@FBI
@Ross William Ulbricht
@Dread Pirate Roberts
@drugs
@weapons
@assassinations
@Bitcoins
