Stratagem

http://www.spc.org/fuller/texts/towardsevil/

A stratagem is a plan or scheme to deceive. (oklamat, podvést)
A confidence trick (synonyms include confidence scheme and scam) is an attempt to defraud a person or group after first gaining their confidence, in the classical sense of trust.

stratagem one: bypass representation
The basic strategy is not to denounce (kritizovat, odsoudit), nor to advocate but rather to create a problem of a different order to that of representation and then follow through practically what it entails.

stratagem two: exploit (zneužít) anachronisms
to draw attention to a range and style of practices which are badly understood when explicitly or implicitly measured against the yardstick of autonomous rationality and the ideal of knowledge. 

stratagem three: stimulate malignancy (zhoubnost)
To talk of evil is also to insist on an ontological dimension of the reality to which the order of communication belongs: the non-sense of something that cannot be exchanged for meaning, which is infinitely tangential to representation (but is not necessarily ‘repressed’).

stratagem four: machine the commonplace
For a number of recent commentators, language and communication are now absolutely central components of the economy.  This shift in the place assigned to communication in the economy opens up a new range of issues to consider and casts new light on the changing nature of work in the contemporary economy. From the restricted practical analysis being sketched out here, the general claim, if not the specific details, suggests some unlikely antecedents for contemporary practices in digital media.

stratagem five: make the accidental the essential
a perception of language and of logic in which faults, glitches and bugs started to be seen simply as accidents, trivial anomalies easily removed by means of the better internal policing of language. Short of being a two-headed monster or a plant of some sort, you could not possibly say one thing and mean two. The norms of reason precluded this: transparency should be the elimination of agonism, not its secret accumulation.

stratagem six: recurse stratagems
stratagem seven: the rapture of capture
stratagem eight: sophisticating machinery
stratagem nine: what is good for natural language is good for formal language
stratagem ten: know your data
stratagem eleven: liberate determinism
stratagem twelve: inattention economy 
stratagem thirteen: brains beyond language
stratagem fourteen: keep your stratagem secret as long as possible
stratagem fifteen: take care of the symbols, the sense will follow
stratagem sixteen: the creativity of matter

Key Words:
@ Evil Media
