Tag (meta-data)

In information systems, a tag is a non-hierarchical keyword or term assigned to a piece of information (such as an Internet bookmark, digital image, or computer file). This kind of metadata helps describe an item and allows it to be found again by browsing or searching. Tags are generally chosen informally and personally by the item's creator or by its viewer, depending on the system.

Labeling and tagging are carried out to perform functions such as aiding in classification, marking ownership, noting boundaries, and indicating online identity. Tagging has gained wide popularity due to the growth of social networking, photography sharing and bookmarking sites.

More types:

Knowledge tags
A knowledge tag is a type of meta-information that describes or defines some aspect of an information resource (such as a document, digital image, relational table, or web page). Knowledge tags are more than traditional non-hierarchical keywords or terms. They are a type of metadata that captures knowledge in the form of descriptions, categorizations, classifications, semantics, comments, notes, annotations, hyperdata, hyperlinks, or references that are collected in tag profiles.

Hashtags
A hashtag is a word or an unspaced phrase prefixed with the symbol #. It is a form of metadata tag. Short messages on microblogging and social networking services such as Facebook, Twitter or Instagram may be tagged by putting "#" before important words (no spaces),[3] either as they appear in a sentence, (e.g., "New artists announced for #SXSW 2012 Music Festival!")or appended to it.
Hashtags provide a means of grouping such messages, since one can search for the hashtag and get the set of messages that contain it. A hashtag is only connected to a specific medium and can therefore not be linked and connected to pictures or messages from different platforms.
Hashtags first appeared and were used within IRC networks to label groups and topics. They are also used to mark individual messages as relevant to a particular group, and to mark individual messages as belonging to a particular topic or "channel".

keywords:
@hashtag
@information system
@keyword
@bookmark
@metadata
@classification
