The Marianas Web
To gain access to this part of the Deep Web, a special hardware is necessary: some argue that you need an old computer and OS, or solve quantum computation mechanics. According to the picture, a “Polymeric Falcighol Derivation” is needed. Beyond the Charter Web exists 80% of the Internet. What the Marianas Web contains is unknown. It is rumored to contain government databases and secret information on several conspiration theories, paranormal events and secret experiments (Hollow Earth, secret societies…). This is very unlikely and has yet to be proven by someone who really gained access to this part of the Internet.

—————————————————————————————-

The things that can be found on the Deep Web conisist of and is not limited too; drug dealers, munitions, hit men, death matches, prostitution, illegal media downloads, child pornography, gore, guides on how to do illegal things, and information on events that governments have covered up.

The buying and selling of services and goods on the Deep Web is beneficial to both the buyer’s and seller’s of these goods and or services is that they do not make physical contact with each other and they stay anonymous to each other, other than the fact that they know that buyer wants something from the seller. This is a good thing because in the case one gets caught by a policing agency he/she cannot implicate the other person.

But how does a person buy and sell anonymously through out the web? Credit cards can be tracked, and the same could be said about large money transactions. The answer to this dilemma was the usage of Bit Coins. To understand what a BitCoin is this video from the creators explains it quite nicely.

If you choose to not watch the video the reason as to why the people who inhabit the deep web is because transactions done with BitCoins are supposedly anonymous. Although not completely anonymous due to the fact that each bit coin transaction has an its own IP address that is unique to each transaction, and if the people know the person they are dealing with and if the buyer does not change their transaction address the bit coin transactions can be traced. To counter act this people have begun to either change their IP address after each transaction or have started to use TOR which will be explained later, but what TOR is in short is a more complex version of a proxy going through multiple networks and computers and using them to send requests so they cannot be traced back to the buyer/ person requesting the service or good.

But this is not where the Deep Web ends. In fact it is said that there are 3 more levels that although there is little proof that they exist people say that it does exist, and they will be explained in Part 4 which is here.

*http://deepweb.wikia.com/wiki/The_Marianas_Web
