Virtual Online World

A virtual world or massively multiplayer online world (MMOW) is a computer-based simulated environment. The term has become largely synonymous with interactive 3D virtual environments, where the users take the form of avatars visible to others. These avatars usually appear textual, two-dimensional, or three-dimensional representations, although other forms, such as live video avatars, are possible, with auditory and touch sensations. In general, virtual worlds allow for multiple users.

The user accesses a computer-simulated world which presents perceptual stimuli to the user, who in turn can manipulate elements of the modeled world and thus experience a degree of telepresence. Such modeled worlds and their rules may draw from the reality or fantasy worlds. Example rules are gravity, topography, locomotion, real-time actions, and communication. Communication between users can range from text, graphical icons, visual gesture, sound, and rarely, forms using touch, voice command, and balance senses.

Massively multiplayer online games depict a wide range of worlds, including those based on science fiction, the real world, super heroes, sports, horror, and historical milieus. The most common form of such games are fantasy worlds, whereas those based on the real world are relatively rare. Most MMORPGs have real-time actions and communication. Players create a character who travels between buildings, towns, and worlds to carry out business or leisure activities. Communication is usually textual, but real-time voice communication is also possible. The form of communication used can substantially affect the experience of players in the game.

Virtual worlds are not limited to games but, depending on the degree of immediacy presented, can encompass computer conferencing and text based chatrooms. Sometimes, emoticons or 'smilies' are available to show feeling or facial expression. Emoticons often have a keyboard shortcut. Edward Castronova is an economist who has argued that "synthetic worlds" is a better term for these cyberspaces, but this term has not been widely adopted.

E-commerce (legal)
A number of virtual worlds have incorporated systems for sale of goods through virtual interfaces and using virtual currencies. Transfers of in-world credits typically are not bound by laws governing commerce. Such transactions may lack the oversight and protections associated with real-world commerce, and there is potential for fraudulent transactions. One example is that of Ginko Financial, a bank system featured in Second Life where avatars could deposit their real life currency after converted to Linden Dollars for a profit. In July 2007, residents of Second Life crowded around the ATM's in an unsuccessful attempt to withdraw their money. After a few days the ATM's along with the banks disappeared altogether. Around $700,000 in real world money was reported missing from residents in Second Life. An investigation was launched but nothing substantial ever came of finding and punishing the avatar known as Nicholas Portocarrero who was the head of Ginko Financial.


Top 5 Virtual Worlds by http://www.virtualworldinfo.com/
Virtual worlds are growing fast.  In 2009, there were 136 million people active in virtual worlds.  That number is projected to grow to over 2 billion in 2014.  There are many different varieties of virtual worlds, from 2D and 3D worlds to user-generated content or professional content, from browser-based and download worlds to free or paid worlds, and from chat-based to more game-like massively multiplayer worlds.  With so many virtual worlds coming to the market, this website has been built to try and help you choose which one is right for you.  Our virtual world list is not complete, but it is a start.  We will do our best to update the list as we find new virtual worlds and have time.  Get those avatars ready to chat, dance and play games!

Onverse
Onverse is a fairly new virtual world. It really shined in the factors we were looking for most in virtual worlds. While it is a social virtual world, it is more game-like than most virtual worlds. You can run around and collect points for shopping to upgrade from a free apartment, dress your avatar, collect pets, and most of all, play games. The gaming angle is why we both really liked it and also think the future is bright for it.

Habbo Hotel
Habbo is one of the oldest worlds out there, and thus has a lot of things to do. The graphics are probably the biggest downside to Habbo, but most web-based worlds fall into this catagory due to the inability of browsers to handle complex 3D rendering.

There
There is a fun place. It has a lot of the things we value highly in our ratings system. Tons of areas, customizations galore, and even some humorous situations to boot. The biggest downside we found were the load times. Sure you get into areas fairly quickly, but because everything is loaded as you go, it sometimes took as long as 10 minutes to load the objects around us, leading to some moments when we didn't know why we couldn't move.

Free Realms
Free Realms is a beautiful world with a lot of activities, customizations, you name it!  The problem we found is that it really doesn't feel like a virtual world, it feels more like an MMORPG.  They call themselves a virtual world, however, and because we really like the game-side of virtual worlds, they scored very high in most catagories.  There are usually a lot of people playing, so we found the community to be helpful, another high score.

Second Life
Second Life is the poster child for the first thing people think of when someone says "virtual world." While it is a wonderful concept and the possibilities are endless, our review board tends to like things more focused towards fun things to do. Second Life is just a little overwhelming for someone who just wants to have a laugh and is more intended as a tool for creation, rather than just being able to hop in and have fun. We have to hand them a top 5 though as if it weren't for SL, most of the others wouldn't have been built. Careful, as many areas are very adult-themed.


Keywords:
@multiplayer
@online
@MMOW
@simulation
@avatar
@real-time actions
@communication
@cyberspace
@synthetic-world
@virtual currency
@Second Life
@Free Realsm
@There
@Onverse
