Ted Nelson

Theodor Holm Nelson (born June 17, 1937) is an American pioneer of information technology, philosopher and sociologist. He coined the terms "hypertext" and "hypermedia" in 1963 and published them in 1965. Nelson has also been credited as being the first person to use the words transclusion, virtuality, intertwingularity, and teledildonics.

Xanadu
Nelson founded Project Xanadu in 1960 with the goal of creating a computer network with a simple user interface. The effort is documented in his 1974 book Computer Lib / Dream Machines and the 1981 Literary Machines. Much of his adult life has been devoted to working on Xanadu and advocating it.

The Xanadu project itself failed to flourish, for a variety of reasons which are disputed. Journalist Gary Wolf published an unflattering history on Nelson and his project in the June 1995 issue of Wired magazine, calling it "the longest-running vaporware project in the history of computing". Nelson expressed his disgust with the assertions on his website,referring to Wolf as "Gory Jackal", and threatened to sue him. He also outlined his objections in a letter to Wired,[6] and released a detailed rebuttal of the article.

Nelson has stated that some aspects of his vision are being fulfilled by Tim Berners-Lee's invention of the World Wide Web, but he dislikes the World Wide Web, XML and all embedded markup – regarding Berners-Lee's work as a gross over-simplification of his original vision:

HTML is precisely what we were trying to PREVENT— ever-breaking links, links going outward only, quotes you can't follow to their origins, no version management, no rights management. Jaron Lanier explains the difference between the World Wide Web and Nelson's vision, and the implications:

A core technical difference between a Nelsonian network and what we have become familiar with online is that [Nelson's] network links were two-way instead of one-way. In a network with two-way links, each node knows what other nodes are linked to it. ... Two-way linking would preserve context. It's a small simple change in how online information should be stored that couldn't have vaster implications for culture and the economy."

Hyper
A prefix often used in scientific and technical words, to denote something above or beyond the usual, normal, expected, or healthy level. Sometimes used to mean extreme or specifically "more than super-".
Nelson: Simplicity and speed with which users could jump to and from textual information.

Keywords:
@Xanadu
@hypertext
@hypermedia
@hyper
@computer network
@node
@Dream Machines
